we actually even surveyed uh 8 000 plus
companies for 2023 most people are
spending more on digital uh traditional
is going down television radio
Billboards print
all right I am with the Savant of
marketing Neil Patel what's up man hey
how are you good dude so I was talking
to you pre-show and I mean I've seen
your stuff and I've had people tell me
like you're the guy who knows everything
about marketing but I didn't know how
massive it really was and you're like
yeah I mean we bet we managed you know
billions of dollars of AD spent a year
I'm like what
it's crazy it's not that hard because
there's really large corporations that
themselves will spend 100 200 million or
a half a billion and it adds up really
quickly yeah so how did you even get to
this point of you know you've got this
agency that's managing billions of
dollars of AD spend for these massive
corporations and I was like how did you
even start making money and you're like
well I came from Tech and you know I've
got cash flow and like I want to know
how did you get started
so I am 37 right now started the first
business when I was 16 first real one
which was the Ad Agency okay spoke at a
nighttime Community College when I was
in high school I was trying to finish
college really early because I want to
get into the workforce and my first
speech was on how Google works in their
algorithm and someone in that class
worked at a power supply manufacturer
they provided power supplies to
airplanes or heart resuscitators and uh
they're like we're looking for some sort
of marker that does what you're talking
about can you meet my boss's boss and I
was like sure 16 he got me a contract
for 60 Grand a year so five grand a
month
and I brought in roughly 25 million in
revenue for that company through SEO and
paid advertising that's ridiculous and
then the owner of that company his son
owned an ad agency
so then he hooked me up with Countrywide
which I'm assuming you know well but
they're no longer on part of Bank of
America now then Blue Cross and ING
Direct so in between all four of those
deals I was making 20 grand a month
his son was arbitraging it because he
had an ad agency he was just charging
more
and I was a little kid and I was like
cool I can do this and as I started
getting into this it started Landing
bigger accounts like I remember one of
our accounts was General Motors we're
working on General Motors
their budget at the time I think it was
somewhere around 3 million a month in ad
spend that we're managing and I was just
like you know if you spent it was either
three or five I forgot the number but
either way there was a wastage of either
like two or three million it was
something large per month I was like if
you don't spend this you'll actually
generate the same return or some
generate the same Revenue but you'll
just be able to save those Millions a
month
and I got canned from that contract
because if I didn't spend the money and
I was a kid I didn't realize this the
person wouldn't get the budget for the
next quarter and when he brought that up
to me I said well then just go allocate
in a different department but that
department wouldn't be his he didn't
like that so I got canned from that
contract
so then from there I was like this is
silly why would companies want to spend
more money than they need to just
because they want to maintain the budget
it's actually the wrong business
decision right right for that
Corporation so from there I built an
analytics software called crazy which we
still have that breaks down the ROI how
you can generate more revenue from the
traffic you're getting
which helps a lot of the Fortune 100 and
that's how I actually made most my money
was software and that got me into the
software run because I'm like wait this
is scalable it does well you don't have
to have as many employees
um winding down the agency focus more on
software did a few more software plays
after that still on the crazy egg one
and then funny enough I got back into
the Ad Agency world five years ago
because most the ad agencies that I know
they have 50 to 100 plus thousand
employees they're really large they're
publicly traded
and everything is manual I'm like these
guys don't use software to automate most
of work so that's why I got back into it
because I felt that I can create another
Ad Agency using software to make it
efficient automated and have better
margins provide better work
um and the business model has worked out
so far yeah so right now how many
billions of dollars you guys managing
right now in ad spend I don't know I
don't keep track of that it's just a lot
it's a lot
um and the reason I don't keep track of
that is a customer who gives you 500
million dollars in ad spend to manage
percentage-wise you make a lot less than
someone who gives you 30 40 50 million
to spend right so the numbers vary
across the board more so we track
revenue for our organization and growth
right are you able to share what kind of
revenues you guys do
we're good size the Ad Agency does over
nine figures okay um well into the nine
figures
um I'll show you growth this year would
be a little bit more than 40 percent so
if there wasn't the economic downturn we
probably would have been closer to 70
growth year over year wow uh and next
year
I don't know what's gonna happen with
the economy my guess is we won't grow 20
we'll grow more than 10. my guesses will
be somewhere in that range and that's
just because you see companies not
wanting to spend money on marketing as
much but the return is still there so
companies won't cut back too much
because if you're spending a dollar and
it makes you
70 cents in profit right for every
dollar you spend so you're making more
than that in Revenue portion of its
profit you're not going to stop spending
in a good Market or a bad Market why
would you yeah you would lose profit
yeah so and that is most of the
companies we deal with they're
generating profit so we don't really see
too much of a Slowdown so why would they
spend less than if you know you were
able to help them keep the same profits
or or the profits diminishing now just
for where things are at most will not
spend less sometimes you get CFOs
because their stock price goes so down
to cut or CFOs saying you got to cut
back so we've gotten emails from and I
won't name the clients but a few large
Fortune 100 companies that say you we
got to stop all spending marketing got
this word from the CFO stocks down we're
cutting all marketing spend you're on
pause for a month or three months until
we tell you otherwise then a month goes
by then two towards the end of the first
month usually second month they're like
hey we noticing less revenue and like
Yeah The Profit was there like yeah we
know and then you get calls on with the
CMOS and then you eventually get to the
CFOs and like sure you can turn it back
on
I mean how does this I wonder how the
CMO and the CFO deal with that like just
debating with each other like we can't
turn it off
yes but at these organizations you have
tons of CMOS because they have different
divisions when companies make like 5 10
20 billion a year in profit not Revenue
right it's billion with a B you got tons
of CF CMOS you have tons of CFOs it's
what division and it all rolls up into
maybe a global CMO or a global CFO and
then when you're doing marketing
typically the marketing is done division
by division because these large
corporations have so many different
products and offerings it's one after
another and then you got to work your
way up the ladder so that makes a lot of
sense so your prediction next year is
that they'll you know they're going to
cut spending right now they'll
eventually realize we need it again we
don't see that much of a cut in digital
we actually seeing it still grow okay so
we actually even surveyed uh 8 000 plus
companies for 2023. most people are
spending more on digital uh traditional
is going down television radio
Billboards print we're seeing a decline
there majority of them are cutting uh
budgets there because it's not direct
Roi and would your agency manage all
forms of marketing for a company or just
digital we only do digital okay we'll do
traditional if it's digital and I'm not
using technical terms on purpose but
like imagine someone watching TV on Hulu
right you can buy ads on Hulu and you
can track what the ROI is there right
it's connected TV right you can see did
that IP address go back to the website
from the Hulu uh that saw the Hulu ad
and then they convert that's crazy
so you know I I've studied a lot of
garyvee and everything else and what he
does with vaynermedia what's he doing
different than you guys yeah vaynermedia
does an amazing job producing great
content
um they're more of a creative shop than
we are we're Performance Marketing so
like imagine spending a dollar on Google
what do you make in return or you rank
on Google through SEO or you know paid
Facebook ads that are Performance Based
or email marketing Etc
vaynermedia will go create like
beautiful campaigns with let's say
Budweiser and they may run during the
Super Bowl or they may do some really
cool social media campaigns we won't
actually go and create their creative so
would you you guys would probably work
in conjunction then correct okay that
makes sense
so you know I mean obviously you guys
are doing the Ad Agency thing and
killing it
um you said software though was really
how you built your wealth initially and
you own some of those companies and we
still do software okay we bought one
earlier this year called answer the
public it was a marketing software okay
and it just tells you what new keywords
people are searching for that are
popular but no one knows about it yet so
like we still do quite a bit of software
each year so answer the public tells you
what's trending that people don't know
is about to Trend Binga okay and it's
using Google suggest data so Google
starts pulling what are people typing in
right now within that region that they
weren't typing in before that's becoming
popular and then we just pull from that
and what do you plan to do with that
so when we bought it it was monetized it
was a it wasn't a big company we bought
it for 8.6 uh I believe it was six mil
up front 2.6 in payments over uh six
quarters which is what our deal was I
think we have three more quarters that
we have to make payments on
and when we bought that business it was
only doing call it a 100 a month in
ebitda maybe 120 130 in Revenue a month
100 you're talking a hundred thousand
yeah yep okay and uh we felt it was
under monetized we probably will get
that business to three four hundred a
month in ebitda so call it 4 million a
year if you want to average it out and
ebitda but that wasn't the main reason
we bought it we didn't really care too
much about the revenue or the ebitda
from the software
we have other marketing software
Solutions and they drive a lot of agency
leads so we were looking at the
companies that use answer the public a
lot of them are large corporations and
closing some of those deals would make
us way more than the software would
right it's a lead magnet it's marketing
for you bingo so it's two ends right it
was it's paid more it's you don't have
to pay for it you get paid to Market to
them and get deals yeah so if you look
at the math let's say we spent 8.6 in
total right after all the payments
with the 8.6 once we get it to four in
ebitda it's a little bit more than a
two-year payback period yeah right the
multiple on that is worth much more when
we folded into our company than the
multiple on that they were on their end
right we paid roughly 8x
and then when you think about the leads
that we generate will generate much more
Revenue in ebitda from the leads of
companies using the software because of
the six seven hundred thousand monthly
uh uniques that they're getting right
now
a not a good chunk a small chunk but
it's enough in volume are large
corporations like the Nikes of the world
and stuff where we don't have contracts
that we love contracts so it's a great
foot in the door right no that makes a
lot of sense so speaking of rolling up
this is something that I've now become
much more aware of
for why certain people are now trying to
do Roll-Ups and all that stuff and you
know I don't come from the tech space
and the the VC space and so I'm just a
gritty entrepreneur who's learning about
this later on and
you know you see these companies roll up
into each other and they just get this
massive multiple now so
what's your strategy there because
you're saying well we would roll them up
are you guys planning to go public exit
like what's the deal no when the market
was good a few people hit us up to go
public we didn't want to go public
um we've talked to the banks like the
goldmans and stuff like that uh what it
would be like and it seems miserable
I've had a few friends who have taken
their companies public we don't want to
do that uh We've looked at also selling
to private Equity we haven't shopped it
but people have hit us up to try to buy
the company and we've gone quite a few
offers over the last
two years uh never chose to do it
the business is like a baby
all right you have two kids yep and
I don't want to give my kids away you
know I was in Brazil meeting with
another entrepreneur
and he's done well he had all the he had
one of the biggest companies in Brazil
that would teach people English and I
think in Florida he owned a soccer team
and then he recently sold that and he's
like just imagine it like your daughter
is getting married and you're giving her
away I'm like I don't want to give away
my kids so every time people hit us up
saying hey we want to buy you I usually
just ignore him someone on my team
usually talks to him but I don't really
ever care to sell hmm so when when
you're talking about a potential roll-up
though if it ever did happen I mean
you'd be rolling in the software and all
these things into the same thing or some
of the companies are combined some of
them are not we don't so private Equity
typically does Roll-Ups from multiple
Arbitrage or uh synergistic play in
which one plus one equals two I mean
three not two yep so most people are
like one plus one equals two private
Equity will be like we can make one plus
one equal three and I'll give you
example of this the one you just bought
would do that yes but their model's a
little bit different let's say I own
my Ad Agency is called NP digital after
me Neil Patel digital and let's say Gary
vaynerchuk owned vaynermedia and let's
say we were both selling okay this is
hypothetically
our private Equity will be like wait
vaynermedia doesn't have much overlap
with NP digital but their customers use
vaynermedia services but they pay a
different agency to do creative work and
the companies that use vaynermedia also
need Google ads and other stuff but
vaynermedia isn't providing some of that
stuff or SEO or whatever it may be so
private Equity will be like we should
buy both companies and cross-sell yeah
and then your customers get stickier
because they're more reliant on you so
churn typically goes down yep so the
customers are worth more and you're
generating way more revenue from your
customer base but you're buying them on
separate multiples let's just say the
math is 15 to 20 times ebitda that's
typically what the companies are trading
for in the agency world uh if you're at
scale and when you're getting 15 to 20
times ebitda assuming you have good
growth you combine them you're not
doubling up you know the ebitda when you
add them up together it's not one plus
one equals two with all the cross cells
you're getting close to one plus one
equals three and because of even larger
scale it's easier to go public where the
multiples in theory should be higher not
always but in theory they should be
higher now that makes sense I've been
unknowingly doing that at obviously a
way smaller scale you know I started out
with our real estate investing education
and then everybody was asking hey how do
we get taxed and so I started a tax
company called true bucks and so many of
our students use our tax company that's
cool tax is super sticky yes and so you
know they're they're with me there and
then we start another education company
called wealthy Creator teaching them how
to do social media because every
entrepreneur right now needs social
media yeah and so it's like this
intertwined web of you know different
ways to
make customers stickier and upsells and
cross-sells like it happens all the time
you know we'll get an investor in my
syndication with pinata capital and you
know they need tax they need this and so
it's just like this web of things
happening well the beautiful part what
you're doing is you have hard assets
real estate yeah and the amount of
Leverage you can get going to the banks
is amazing yep that's what's cool about
your industry our industry
you know when you want to start doing
Roll-Ups and you have cash flow we go to
the banks uh we work with the amazing
bank called CIBC they're Canadian Bank
um and they're also in the US as well
they're I think they're publicly traded
on the Canadian exchange
either way whether you go through a JP
Morgan or CIBC or whoever you're just
shopping rates whoever's giving you the
best rates you get leverage and then you
can use that to go buy more companies
right so you don't actually have to come
up with cash out of pocket once you get
to a big enough scale but with real
estate you can do that much quicker
owning less real estate because of the
leverage that people are willing to give
mm-hmm yeah what's the leverage look
like at company Acquisitions like what
did Elon get as leverage to buy Twitter
he probably put a lot of cash down my
guess is if Twitter was doing 2 million
in ebitda I'm making it up I don't know
what Evita Twitter was doing but let's
say if there are two million maybe he'll
get six seven X Max it starts becoming
higher interest rates you'll start
having to pay like 11 12 13 interest
rates so to give you idea with like tech
companies like mine we can typically get
3x ebitda sulfur plus maybe three
percent three and change so let's say If
the Fed rate is four percent and we're
at three we're paying seven percent
interest but when the market was good
and the Fed rate was at let's say zero
point or zero and we're at three you're
only talking about three four percent so
when you do an acquisition for 10
million dollars
you're only paying out four percent four
hundred thousand dollars a year interest
only yeah it's nothing yeah you don't
need money you have to make very little
to almost no uh uh principal payments
and you can scale up and then you're
adding more Evita which allows you to
borrow more and of course the Math's not
hard right just do the math I bought
that company for less than 10 million
bucks even if it was at 10 at 7 700 I'm
growing the ebitda even with its
existing ebitda it pays for the loan
plus more but we were able to grow the
ebitda so it's cash flowing more it pays
on the loan by itself we use none of our
own money yeah that's crazy it's just
like real estate we try to do things
without using any of our own money but
like business it's way in my mind it's
way easier to force the appreciation
would you agree it is but it's much
harder in business to uh uh to build the
teams and the systems exactly to
actually do it yes it's more risky and
there's more uh you lose money than you
gain money and I see a lot of people
making mistakes yeah real estate's much
safer it's safer I I don't think real
estate's easy at all which is why I used
to do a lot more real estate I don't do
as much now and I've done things from
like apartment complexes that are a few
hundred units I think real estate is a
lot of hard work yeah it is and everyone
thinks like oh you just put in some
money and you invest then you're good to
go it's easier to give people like you
money and let you deal with the crap no
offense yeah and to invest in a fund
like yours or whoever may have a fund
and then not have to deal with the
renters yeah no I I've actually said
that as my career has developed you know
I made my first Millions flipping houses
and doing real estate and then
eventually you know I started getting
into the digital space and the social
media space I'm like dang dude these
digital products have way less overhead
light way less risk way more scalable
you know it's sales and marketing
essentially yep and I'm like I can do
this over and over again and so like I
started going down that path but I've
always stayed with real estate because
it's my core competency and I know how
to do it and you know as I've gotten
more and more wealthy people people you
know and I see how they make money I'm
like yeah you guys shouldn't even mess
with real estate like you guys like you
said you should just give it to me or
whoever else and like let us deal with
it because the way you make money is
like far easier not not easier or
simpler but like just it's just a better
way of making money like active income
yes and a lot of them got started a long
time ago so their businesses goodness is
like do you really want to run this
apartment complex for this return it's
like it's easier to just park money with
you or whoever else yeah no I agree so
what are you seeing you know I guess on
the media side like I mean you've been
doing ads for a long time you know
you're on social media you have a
podcast too and you know you're doing
all these things what do you see
happening with social media as as the
years go on
so I think organic social is going to
become harder and harder reach is
continually getting cramped and I see
people and influencers having no choice
but to eventually start spending more on
ads yeah it's already not the second
thing that we're seeing is uh there's
gonna be a big influencer pay with
companies paying influencers to be brand
evangelists and not in the way that most
companies are doing it right now people
will be like hey I'm gonna go pay a
Kardashian and have them post a photo
that's not working that well compared to
what it used to four or five years ago
but what is working and saying I'm gonna
do a deal with a Kardashian give him
some money
have them be part of the company give
them a little bit of equity yeah and
they're going to promote the product
consistently and they're also going to
be part of the website and the landing
page and the story is going to make
sense and the products can be very
related to their audience and we're
seeing that being super effective I mean
it's like what Nike's been doing forever
with athletes exactly yeah and online
you saw it where people would just go
for the quick hits being like oh let me
just pay Kim Kardashian for a post like
skinnyfit tea back in the day they'd
make the money and over time they're
like wait this isn't working as well
yeah you needed to give Kim Equity so
she'd have skin in the game to actually
do it yes and she needs to actually be
in love with the product and continually
wanted to drink it or use it and post
about it and be on the website and to be
part of her brand as well I mean look at
before all this drama with Kanye but
look at what him and Adidas did together
yeah it's amazing yeah and that's what I
mean in which the celebrity has to be
part of the company exactly no that
makes complete sense and I've been
saying that for a while as I've watched
the influencers who actually have
started to build businesses or partner
with businesses
um you know I was seeing the thing of
like uh Rihanna became a billionaire
yeah with Fenty with Fenty right you saw
Kylie Jenner do it right the youngest
ever yeah you know you see Mr Beast now
creating his own products and and
different things
um The Rock and Conor McGregor like
going into alcohol yeah and you know
then selling for nine figures and I'm
like that's the way you build influence
and then you like build a really good
company that's related to what you
actually to your point are passionate
about
I don't think it works as well anymore
okay so many rocks and Rihanna's are
doing it where every celebrity has their
own product and brand okay and we're
seeing the Gap in because we work with
some of these Brands but
um I also know a lot of the investors in
some of these companies as well okay and
what you'll find is a lot of times they
break on the operations and systems end
right you you can for example Kylie
Jenner can use her brand and just blow
up any product that is related to her
audience ex Kylie Cosmetics did an
amazing job but to continually build
amazing products in the beauty space is
a lot of hard work I'm not saying she's
not doing a good job but it's not that
simple from taking a company from zero
to being worth a billion and there's
some posts online about the sale so you
can see the sales numbers
it's not that easy to generate a few
hundred million and then be like all
right now we're going to scale to a
billion 2 billion in sales it's a lot of
work a lot of systems a lot of processes
that I don't think a lot of these
influencers have figured out yet but
when you combine them with the large
corporations like I'm talking about I
think Fenty did a good job because Fenty
is in partnership with uh lvmh sure one
of those brands it allows you to scale
and grow much faster because they
already have the systems and processes
in place right yeah that makes sense
because to your point basically any
influencer could start a business and
launch it like fast but then after that
it becomes back to traditional business
of like how well are you at r d and
operations and scaling because you got
the marketing piece down yeah but the
other side is is going to be the
bottleneck and I've had tons of
conversations with CAA looking at a lot
of the deals because they work with a
lot of these influencers they even have
incubation there and I've seen the
revenue numbers for a lot of these
businesses and a lot of big celebrities
not with a million or even 10 million
followers I'm talking about like 50 100
million followers you'll be shocked on
how many of them are launching products
like supplements or protein let's say if
the influencers buff or whatever right
and you'll be shocked on
how little revenue and how little profit
the companies are actually generating a
lot of its systems processes and
operations where they're breaking down
right but I think too I I guess also I
look at it from the perspective of like
I I know you're like thinking super
large and massive and then you know
maybe these guys with take a guy like me
across the platforms I have like almost
2 million followers now and I'm like
yeah you know if I could go do 50
million in revenue and go go net 15
million bucks a million bucks a month
whatever like I'm chilling they're not
even doing that I'm looking at a lot of
CAA deals and some of them are
struggling to even make a million
dollars a year in profit okay well yeah
and then they have
call it fallings that are 20 30 40 times
larger than yours and they can't get to
even 20 30 million in Revenue so their
problem was they just partnered with the
wrong company do you think no it's a lot
of the influences are creating their own
companies and their own products kind of
like Kylie did Kylie Jenner versus
Rihanna partnering with lvmh yeah and
it's not the right management team well
that's what I'm saying they just picked
the wrong exactly the wrong comp team
company whatever or even product yeah
and a great example of this is
um
I forgot that the lady's name she's
super popular
she has like vodka infused whipped cream
or something like that I forgot where
her name is and she has a ton of
followers I'm pretty sure between all
the platforms over 100 million followers
but when you look at the revenue for
that business you're not even talking
about 10 million dollars the problem is
the influencer wanted to do something
like vodka infused whipped cream
something so specific product Market
yeah and they're like oh riches are in
the niches no it's not you need to go
after a big Tam right total addressable
Market Yeah well yeah and that's why
whiskey Works yes huge huge Market yeah
but if every celebrity is going to
create a whiskey product and you
continually have the Rock and Conor and
George Clooney and another 100
celebrities doing this yeah you got to
be unique but also have a big Tam
correct